First of all, let's start to dive
into talking about pre-trained model,
or maybe as an overview,
what is machine learning?
So we're talking a lot about it maybe for
the past year, year and a half.
So I'm not gonna spend too much time
on this, but it's basically giving
the ability to computers to do things
without being explicitly programmed.
So It's a bit different from the usual
programming that we do because
usually if you're working,
you type your code,
it's supposed to do exactly
what you're writing.
And in machine learning, it's more about
finding patterns and being able to predict
things without being told exactly
what you're actually giving it.
And the difference between machine
learning and AI, it's kind of people
use AI a lot as the umbrella for things,
but under it you have machine learning and
deep learning, which is machine
learning with neural networks, and
then even computer vision and
natural language programing.
I wrote processing, but it's programing.
And I usually call it machine
learning because, well, I mean,
usually TensorFlow.js when it came out,
it was more machine learning specific.
We can say AI, we can use both terms
because now that's what people use a lot.
And before we get started as well,
so when you do machine learning,
there's kind of like a new
terminology that we're gonna use.
And I can define a few words,
I can start doing that now, but
I feel like as we're gonna write some
code, it's gonna make more sense.
But basically, when I talk about a model,
it's a function that takes an input,
runs some calculation inside, and then
produces an output with probabilities.
And then these models, to create a model
you need machine learning algorithms, and
there's a lot of types of algorithms.
I think the ones that you might hear
about more often is convolutional neural
network, that is abbreviated as CNN, that
is one that is mostly used with images.
So if you wanna do image detection,
you're probably going to use
a convolutional neural network.
Then there's Naive Bayes,
or long short-term memory.
And I'm not gonna go into defining
the internals of the algorithms,
because for what we're doing in this
workshop, what's interesting and
what is more useful is to know
what they're good at doing.
So that then you know that if you're
doing things with text, you might not
use a convolutional neural network,
you might wanna try something else.
Or if you have data that's
maybe a spreadsheet of numbers,
you might use Naive Bayes more, but it's
more something that you can research over
time as you're learning more about this.
Sometimes, I mean, especially more
recently in kind of AI discussions,
you might have heard of
the word weight a bit more.
And we'll probably talk about it
a bit later in the workshop because
we're gonna build our own model,
there's gonna be the concept of weights.
But it's how much importance you
give to each feature of the data set
to improve the model's accuracy
to perform a certain task.
So when you're feeding
a data set to a model,
depending on what you
are actually feeding it,
if we're taking the example of a data
set to recognize flowers, for example.
You have the color or you have the length,
or you have the length of the petals, or
you might have, I don't know, if they're
fluffy flowers or something like that.
And each of these features have
a different importance in terms of be able
to recognize what they are.
So weights is basically
the importance of a specific feature
to generate more accurate predictions.
And then there's
the concept of overfitting.
And it's when the model fits too
closely to the training data set.
So at the end, usually the accuracy
that you get from your
model is usually a number between zero and
one.
At the end of your training process,
if you get the number one,
it means that the model has successfully
predicted what's in a data set, but
really only that.
So if you give it a new image and
it wasn't part of that data set,
it's less likely to actually give
it a good prediction because
the model has gotten used too much to
the actual data that you gave it, so
it's not really good at
predicting new ones.
And then mostly throughout this course,
I'm gonna say the word class, or classes,
or labels a lot.
And it's usually a description of
an individual piece of data, and
it's usually one word, that's easier.
So if we're doing image detection, a label
could be a dog for the image of the dog.
Basically, in the way
that the model works,
you have to have a piece of data and the
description of it so that the model can
really make a correlation between
the label and the piece of data.
When you're doing machine learning,
there's different types of
machine learning as well.
We're mostly going to focus on
supervised learning in this workshop,
and it's when you give
a labeled dataset to the model.
And the algorithm is going to find
the correlation between the data and
the labels.
So again, if you're looking at an open
source data set, usually you'll have
a bunch of images and you'll also have
the label associated with these images.
And then when you do unsupervised
learning, you're giving a dataset,
but you're not telling the algorithm
what the pieces of data is.
So in terms of why you would want
an unsupervised learning is if you're more
interested in clustering data.
So if you're doing, for example,
you're looking at customer feedback
on a product, for example.
You are mostly interested in maybe
the sentiment of what they're saying.
So you don't want to label a specific
piece of of comment or of data,
but you want to know if customers
are happy or disappointed or angry.
So when you're feeding that data to
the algorithm to create the model,
you don't want to label
every piece of comment.
You're just feeding it and it will find
patterns between the kind of vibe.
So you'll end up with different clusters,
and you'll be able to see,
there's more comments in the disappointed
pile or something like that.
And then in terms of semi-supervised
learning, I've never done this one, but
it's a mix of supervised and unsupervised.
So some of the data is labelled, some
is not, and apparently you can achieve
a higher accuracy and
efficiency with that one as well.
I haven't done it and I'm not sure
exactly that there's a way to do it with
TensorFlow.js, but it's good to know
that there's also that type as well.
And finally, reinforcement learning,
you might have heard of it if you
are interested in more gaming and
little agents that can act on their own.
So in reinforcement learning,
the training method is based on rewarding
the desired behavior and
punishing the undesired one.
So I haven't done this one as well, I
just know that it's mostly used in games.
So throughout the learning process,
the model is kind of tweaked towards
learning through trial and error.
So if it made a good prediction, then
it's rewarded somehow, and then if not,
then it's punished.
And then it kind of learns a little by
little what's the expected behavior.
In terms of tools of machine learning
that you can do, like in JavaScript,
we're gonna use TensorFlow.js today,
but there's more.
Another one is Ml5.js and
it's an even simpler library that's
kind of built on top of TensorFlow.js.
So it's like another layer
of abstraction as well.
There's a few more specific ones.
There's, for example, brain.js,
or confident.js that would
be more specifically if you want
to use convolutional networks,
the neural networks.
And then there's Keras.js,
so that's like a JavaScript version
of the Keras tool in Python.
Okay, so as an overview of
machine learning in general,
that is pretty much it.
There's probably a lot
more that I can say, but
I want to start diving a little bit more
into what you can do with TensorFlow.js.